A case or in the next few videos we're going to be looking at some date functions which are going to
make it a lot easier when we're dealing with dates or date time data types.
In my ask you will.
So if you remember from before in the exercises I was asking you to extract data from certain months
or between two dates and it was kind of tricky because you had to write out quite a long escrow query
with four day.
So between this day and this day but there were some functions in my school which make it a lot easier
when dealing with dates.
And the one we're going to look at in this video is the Date function.
So basically the Date function extracts the date from a date or a date time date type.
So if we look at this example here you can see it says Select day.
And then in brackets there's this date.
So 2018 June the 5th.
And if we run this query.
So select day from this date in this bracket we can see it returns that day 2018 0 6 0 5 which is unsurprising.
But if we were to modify this date by adding a time after the date.
So let's say 0 7 45 32.
So this is now looks like a date time data type.
If we were to run the query again you can see still just extracts and returns the date part of this
string and we can also apply this date function to column data within our database.
So using our system our booking system let's use this date function on some column data so let's select
start time from the screenings.
So the start time column in the screenings table is of data type date time.
So you can see from their results we have a date plus the time.
So we have 2017 October the 1st and then a time and so on and so on.
But if we were to use the Date function on the start time column we can actually just extract the date.
So let's copy and paste our query and type dates and then put the start time in brackets.
So now we're applying the Date function to the start time column from the screenings table and you can
see it just returns the date.
So we've got 2017 10 1.
But no time.
And so on and so on you can see 2017 10 or two and then it just carries on and this becomes useful when
we start using WHERE clauses.
Let's say we wanted to select all the data from the screenings table where the day was equal to October
the 3rd 2017 we can type select store from screenings
and then we can put in a WHERE clause we can put dates start time.
So we're applying the Date function to the start time column again and we can say equal to 2017 10 or
three in single quotes.
So worse they start time as equal to 2017 10 03.
And if we run that query you can see it returns all the data where the start time dates is equal to
2017 10 03.
So we have 2017 10 or 3 or 4 o'clock 4:30 5 7 7:30 and 8 o'clock.
And if we run the same query but without using the date function you can see whatever we going to get.
So we're just saying well start time is now equal to 2017 10 free and you can see it returns no data
because there's no start time which exactly equals 2017 10 03.
So we have to use the Date function for this to work
and you can see now we have our data returned and I'll show you one final example where we'll return
data from between two dates.
So let's copy and paste this last query here and then we can change this ECOs to a between.
So we want to return data between 2017 10 03 and 2017 10 05 so the 5th of October so we can come in
here and we can type and.
And then in single quotes 2017 10 0 5 and then if we run this query you can see it returns all the data
from start time 2017 10 03 to 2017 10 05.
So this becomes the state function becomes really useful when trying to get data from between two dates.
You can see the difference if we just said where start time
is between 2017 and 10 or 3 and 2017 10 or 5
you can see it still returns the data for the 3rd of October and the 4th of October but it doesn't return
the data for the 5th of October.
And that's because of the time in the date time data type.
So when we run this query without the date function on the start time is actually taking this value
here to be 2017 10 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 0.
So at midnight so every day time on the 5th of October is actually after this time.
So it doesn't fall between these two days.
So it doesn't get returns in the results whereas if we're just using the date function on the start
time column
obviously now is going to return all the data on this state because we're only interested in what the
date says.
So you can see returns from the 3rd to the 5th of October 2017.
So that's it for this video on the date function.
So basically what the date function does is it extracts the date from a date data type or date time
data type.